# Virtual-Therapist
## Abstract & introduction

Adolescents are facing various challenges to their
mental health due to their exposure to online
risks and pressures, such as cyberbullying,
misinformation, social comparison, and
unrealistic expectations. They also have to deal
with the stress and anxiety from their academic

and personal lives, which can affect their self-
esteem and well-being. These factors can lead to

negative emotions and behaviors, such as
depression, isolation, self-harm, and substance
abuse. Teenagers are reluctant to ask for help
because of the stigma around mental health
disorders, and there are also additional
limitations including waiting lists and geographic
restrictions. There is a significant gap in the
treatment that should be available conveniently
and cost-effectively, and the services available at
hand. The ratio of therapists, psychiatrists,
psychiatric social workers and mental health
nurses to patients is 1: 10,000, even in developed
countries (Kislay, 2020). The disparity in the
system means that most people with mental
health problems will never get the support they

need. In response, we developed a technology-
based application that provides online support

and guidance to adolescents with mental health
problems.